Are you an artist looking to grow your
Instagram account? Maybe you want to
create a portfolio showcasing your work.
Or maybe you're hoping to turn your
passion into a career one day. Growing
an art account can be really difficult
because as artists, we already spend our
time making art. But growing a following
on social media opens up a lot of
opportunities like turning your art into
your full-time job, which is exactly
what I did. In just one year, I was able
to grow my art account from 150
followers to over 40,000 followers. Now
I get to do what I love every day, which
is making art. And bonus, it pays my
bills. But I couldn't have done it
without Instagram. So today I'm going to
break down for you everything that I
learned over the last year about how I
grew a genuine following on Instagram of
people who love my content and support
my art. Let me start with a little bit
of background. So for those of you who
don't know me, hi. My name is Sarah. I
am the owner of Colorfully Sarah Shop.
Like I said, I am a crossstitcher, pixel
artist, and also a small business owner.
The name of my business is called
Colorfully Sarah Shop, where I sell
digital crossstitch patterns that I've
designed myself as well as crossstitch
accessories. I originally started this
business back at the very end of 2023
and I had gotten the call that I was
getting laid off. I had a job at an
animation company working as a digital
lighting artist on a show for Disney Jr.
I was living in Vancouver, but I had
moved back to Chicago because my company
told me that it was okay. And then about
a year after I moved, they told me it
was not okay that I moved back to
Chicago and that's why they ended up
laying me off. And it was such a punch
in the gut to lose my job. And I really
felt that feeling of instability. And
the worst part of it all was I had just
bought a house with my husband and 3
months later I found out I was losing my
job. So in my state of panic, I decided
to start kind of like a side hustle. I
had always loved crossstitch and I've
been a crossstitcher for years and I had
a passion for designing crossstitch
patterns. I had a very specific style
that I liked to crossstitch and it was
really hard for me to find patterns that
were the specific style that I wanted.
So I ended up making a lot of my own
designs. But in an attempt to make any
income at all, I started an Etsy shop
where I uploaded my first digital
crossstitch pattern. And within a day or
two of posting my pattern to Etsy, I had
gotten my first sale. I think the very
first sale might have been my mom, but I
did get a legitimate sale within a day
or two. And from then, a couple of sales
would trickle in every single day. I had
also started an Instagram in order to
promote my art and drive people to my
Etsy store. But I was only posting still
photos. I didn't make any reals. I did
absolutely nothing. I was doing the bare
minimum on Instagram just trying to post
stuff, create a portfolio almost. It
wasn't until about March of 2024 when I
actually started taking posting on
Instagram seriously. And within a month
or two of posting consistently on
Instagram, my account blew up. The reals
I were posting were related to
crossstitch and I would crossstitch my
patterns that I was designing. Some of
the very first reels that I posted
gained like over 400,000 views, which is
literally just crazy. But ever since
those videos, I've been able to slowly
consistently over the past year continue
growing my following up to 40,000
followers. And within that year, I've
learned a lot of what works, what
doesn't work. Even to this day, like a
year later, I'm still gaining almost 100
followers on Instagram every single day.
Sometimes it does dip a little bit below
100 because I get lazy and I get busy.
And as a small business owner, you know,
you're trying to do everything. But for
the most part, I've been really
consistently gaining followers every
single day. I think part of the reason
that I was so successful right off the
bat in the beginning is because I didn't
have a job and I didn't view failing as
an option. I feel like a lot of people
in the back of their mind are like, "Oh,
there's always the possibility that it
won't work out or oh, what if people
don't like my art?" And I feel like that
kind of kills our motivation to post. I
really looked at it from the perspective
of I don't have a job right now. I need
to make this Instagram thing work. I
knew I needed a second stream of income.
I knew that we wouldn't be able to
afford this house unless I could find a
job. And in December, once I lost my
job, I was kicking my butt into gear.
Every single day, I was working on
designing new patterns, posting on
Instagram, creating new things, pouring
my heart into my social media. I think
something that really helped my
Instagram account stand out was the fact
that there wasn't really a lot of other
people creating the type of content that
I was creating. Crossstitch is a very
traditional type of craft where I feel
like the average audience is on the
older side. There are also a lot of
younger people who do crossstitch, but
in general, I feel like when people
think of crossstitch, they think of like
an old lady with a crossstitch hoop
sitting in her rocking chair, but I feel
like a lot of the crossstitch content on
Instagram was posted by older women and
there wasn't really a lot of young
people doing crossstitch. And of the
young people doing crossstitch, I found
a lot of darker colors, a lot of nature
themes, um, potions, astrology, insects,
that type of vibe. I couldn't really
find any, uh, cutesy, pastel, video game
themed, beginner friendly crossstitch
patterns. So, I think the fact that I
really made stuff from my heart really
helped because it was one of a kind. I
wasn't out there copying other artists
or trying to replicate their success. I
was making stuff that I wanted to make
and it was very true and genuine to me.
So, if you are an artist and you make
stuff that is unique and stands out, I
think that will really help you a lot.
That's not to say that if there's a
style that a lot of people have, you
won't be successful. I just think it
really helps to have something about
your art account or your business page
that is unique. These days, a lot of
people want to start their own small
business, which is great, and I always
think the world needs more small
businesses, but that means that there's
a lot of competition. And you have to
think, why would people follow your
account instead of this other account?
What about your account is special?
Another thing that I had that I think
helps a lot, I truly think having an
aesthetic really helps your page. Now, a
lot of artists do see success without
having a cohesive aesthetic. This is not
something that you have to do. I just
personally have seen a lot of success
with it. When you look at my Instagram
page, it doesn't matter if you look at
the posts from the beginning, it doesn't
matter if you look at the posts from
today, you will see a general purple
theme on my Instagram. I've tried to
make my primary brand color purple
because it helps people recognize me.
Now, that doesn't mean that you need to
go out and buy a bunch of stuff and get
the most aesthetic setup and do all
these things. It just helps a lot if you
have a specific brand identity, color
scheme, vibe. It really helps other
people see that and connect with you.
Like there are a lot of people who like
darker colors. There are a lot of people
who like more natural colors. And then
there are people like me who love
rainbow pastel everything. But without
even clicking on any of my videos, as
soon as people land on my page, they
see, "Oh, I kind of see the vibe that
this girl is about." And I think that
helps a lot. Your profile is basically
your business card. When people come to
your profile and read your bio and look
at your posts and all of that, that's
their first impression of you. And that
matters a lot. A lot of people aren't
going to take the time to click on every
single video and see what type of
content you post. A lot of people are
just going to look at your page and say,
"Oh, this looks like something fun."
Follow or I don't really know if this
inspires me or I don't know if this is
something that I really relate to.
People are selfish, including me. I'm
selfish, too. We all are. And it's okay.
We follow people for a specific reason
because we get something out of it. You
could be funny, you could be
educational, relatable, inspirational,
anything. and figure out what you can
offer to your audience in addition to
just the artwork that you post. Even if
you're an artist and you're posting on
Instagram to create more of a portfolio
for your stuff, even by adding a fun
caption or words or doing something to
make your post really resonate with
other people or have something that they
can get value out of. The one thing that
you do need to have, and I'm not just
saying this because I'm a lighting
artist. I don't care what anybody says,
you need a decent camera quality and
good lighting. Now, that doesn't mean
you have to go out and buy a camera. You
can use your iPhone. Just make sure that
there's no smudge on the camera. Make
sure it's not dark and you're filming
like this shaky footage that's kind of
Don't do that. Just take a little bit of
extra time to wipe off your camera lens.
Stand by the window. Get a really nice
light. Um, natural light is by far the
best light that you can use. A little
bit of good lighting goes such a long
way. You want people to be able to see
your art. It just makes it look fresh
and clean and inviting. And lighting is
really so important. And take it from me
because my job literally was a lighting
artist. Lighting influences mood.
Lighting invokes emotion. It is so
important and is often overlooked for a
lot of new content creators. The main
thing that I do on Instagram is I post
reels. I post between three to four
reels every single week along with at
least one carousel post. Now, there are
different ratios. You don't have to do
this every single day, but currently
reels are the best way for people to
discover your account on Instagram. So,
even if you're an artist and you're just
making drawings, film a little bit of
the process. Even if you just turn on
your camera and show the sketching
process or show you starting to draw
line art and then you turn off your
camera and come back when it's done, any
filming at all is really helpful. People
love to see the process of you creating
art and see how it all comes together.
So, something that I would do because
like I said, I do crossstitch. Um, and
it takes 50 hours to finish one
crossstitch piece. So, obviously I can't
finish a crossstitch piece every single
time I post. So, what I would do is I
would film multiple times during that
process. I would film getting all my
supplies ready. I would film the first
couple stitches. I would film the middle
of the project. I would get different
angles of it. I would get wide shots. I
would get close-ups. I would get a whole
bunch of footage. I'd get some shots at
the very end when I finished my piece.
And then I would show a bunch of
different angles of the finished
product. So, within one crossstitch
piece, I was able to make at least four
or five reels out of that. So, it's
really helpful if you can be smart about
how to get the most amount of content
out of the least amount of footage.
You'll hear a lot of content creators
talk about B-roll. B-roll is basically
footage where you're not talking or it's
not a main shot, but it's usually you
doing some activity and you can lay text
over this. And by compiling a bunch of
B-roll shots into different reels and
adding different text, you can really
make a lot of content out of the same
footage. So, don't stress yourself out
trying to make a new drawing every week
or trying to make a new product every
week. And the longer that you create
content, the more footage and the more
B-roll that you're going to have over
time. It really just takes a while. And
then eventually it'll be a lot easier
for you to just pull from a whole
library of clips that you have and you
can just splice different things
together and make new reels. You can
also talk about the materials that you
use, the supplies you use. You can do
voiceovers. You can give tutorials.
There's a lot of different ways to make
content. And it's kind of just about
figuring out which ways work best for
you and can fit in with your workflow.
Another thing that I see a lot of is
artists who don't engage with their
audience. The whole point of Instagram
is to grow a community, have an
audience, and if you have people there
who are commenting on your stuff, who
like your art, who like your business,
and they want to support you, you have
to respond to them. Like, these people
took time out of their day to either
write you a compliment or leave a nice
message on your post. Unless you have
like hundreds of comments and you don't
have the time to answer all of them, at
least try to get through 5 to 10. A lot
of my Instagram posts have between 10
and 20 comments, and I always make sure
to answer all of them. But in general,
on every real that I post, I respond to
everybody in the comments. By engaging
with people on Instagram, you do a few
things for yourself. When people engage
on your post on Instagram, Instagram
realizes that as a good thing, and it
helps boost your post in the algorithm.
There are so many things about the
algorithm that we cannot control. So,
anything that we can control, it's
really important to utilize. The second
reason this is so important is because
you're probably on Instagram to grow an
audience. And in order to grow an
audience, you need to have a
relationship with them. It's like having
a friend where you're the one who's
always making plans, always texting to
hang out first and they never do the
same for you. And then eventually you
get tired of that friend and you stop
reaching out to them and then they don't
respond back. You start to worry if that
person's actually your friend and if
they actually want to spend time with
you. Your audience will feel the same
way if you don't respond to them in the
comments. So make them feel loved. Start
conversation. At least say thank you. Do
something to talk with your audience.
The biggest thing about running an
Instagram account as a artist or small
business owner is we are not content
creators. So, we really have to be smart
about how we can do the least amount of
work and get the most results. It's so
important to plan a schedule that works
well for you and your business. No two
people are going to run their Instagram
accounts the same way. I know a lot of
people have had success making voiceover
reels. I hate my voice, so I don't want
to post any reals on Instagram with my
voice. None of my Instagram videos have
my voice. A few of them show my face,
but for the most part, it's either the
back of my head or the stuff that I'm
working on. I will admit it does help if
you can either share your voice or show
your face on Instagram because it helps
people have a connection with you.
People want to see the artist behind the
artwork. People connect with other
people and that's part of the reason why
everyone likes social media so much.
People support small businesses and
artists because they want to have a
connection. They enjoy seeing how their
purchase changes somebody's life or how
it makes an impact. I personally find it
really rewarding when I have an artist
or a small business that I support and I
see how much it helps the bigger picture
or watching an artist go through stages
of their life or watching their business
grow. I think it's so rewarding knowing
that you were a part of that and you can
physically see how you changed
somebody's life. So, if you're
comfortable, I think it's really
beneficial if you could show your face
or voice. I've had a lot of success
posting videos on Instagram that show my
business blowing up, me getting a bunch
of orders, my business becoming my
full-time job. People love success
stories and it's really motivating and
inspiring if you can share some of that.
This is something that I don't think
I've heard anybody talk about, but I
think this is so important. I think it's
so important to build off of your
successes. Now, what I mean by that is
let's pretend that you got your first
order. Instead of just being excited
about your first order, make a post
about it. Make a video about it. Pack
the order on camera. Show the person's
name. Say, "Thank you blah blah blah for
your order." That will make the person
feel so excited and that will encourage
other people to want to buy from you.
That's something I personally do a lot
in my YouTube videos is I try to show
the names of the orders that I'm packing
because I think it's really special when
somebody sees their order being packed
on social media. Whenever something good
happens to you, try to build off of it.
Even this order counter that I have
right here, people get excited when they
place an order and they see the number
change. Try to find as many
opportunities as you can to create
excitement, create engagement, and just
make your content fun. Whenever I had a
collection sell out, I'd make a video on
it. I would film all my packages. A few
weeks ago, I was selling crossstitch
kits and the collection sold out within
24 hours. I filmed a thank you video and
I posted it on my Instagram story and I
got so many positive comments because
people were like, "Oh my gosh, I'm so
excited about my kit." And I also posted
a real of saying, "Hey, this collection
sold out." And that created a lot of
comments from people being like, "Oh my
gosh, I can't believe I missed this.
Wow, it looks like this collection was
really popular. I kind of wish that I
had bought something, but next time when
you restock, I'm going to make sure that
I get it." When something good happens
to you, take advantage of it. Celebrate
it. Make it a bigger deal. The last tip
that I have for growing your Instagram
audience might be the most important tip
and it's kind of contradictory, but
don't let yourself get obsessed over the
follower count. At the end of the day,
the amount of followers that you have
genuinely does not matter. And I mean
that. Let me tell you, it does not
matter. Even artists and small business
owners who have hundreds of thousands of
followers don't always get good
engagement on their posts. Just because
people say that they want to follow you
doesn't mean that that's going to
translate into a sale. It doesn't mean
that they're going to engage with your
art. It doesn't mean that they're going
to like your posts or be excited to
watch them. At the end of the day, you
don't really know why people follow you,
and it's not really something that you
can control. When I first started
selling stickers, I had almost 10,000
followers on Instagram. And when I had
my sticker shop launch, I maybe sold 10
stickers. Of those 10,000 people, only
about 10 of them bought stickers from
me. And that's really common. A lot of
artists talk about that. It's really
easy to assume that because somebody has
a lot of followers or views, their
business is really successful, but
that's not always the case. Think about
it like this. The quality of your
followers is so much more important than
the quantity of them. It's so much
better to have a hundred diehard fans
who would like foam at the mouth every
single time you post something rather
than 10,000 people who don't care when
you post. It can be really easy,
especially in the beginning as you're
growing, to feel like nobody cares about
your art or you're posting to the void.
But think about it. Even if you were in
a room with five people who loved your
art, that's amazing. That's really cool.
I don't care how many followers I have.
Anytime anybody's like, "Hey, I really
like your art." I'm genuinely like, "Me?
You like my art?" Like, it makes my day.
It's so easy to have social media skew
our perception of follower count. But
100 people, imagine a room full of 100
people who like your art. Like, that's
crazy. That's so many people. In almost
every single circumstance, it's better
to have less followers who are genuine
than more followers who don't care about
you. At the end of the day, it's all
about building a community so that you
can continue to do what you love. If you
enjoyed this video or found it helpful,
please go give it a like. And if you
haven't already, please consider
subscribing. It's a free way to support
my channel and helps me continue to make
videos for you guys. But if you follow
these tips, don't get discouraged and
keep posting consistently. You will
eventually get there. This is not a
guide on how to blow up your Instagram
overnight, but instead how to gain a
genuine audience who loves your art and
supports you. Thank you guys so much for
watching and I'll see you in the next
one. Bye.